August 18, 2013 12:09 PM


FlAMIN' HOT CHEAT ... OHS!

Matt Forte, Chi, RB – It’s been stated and restated, but to reiterate, Forte looks scary good in Marc Trestman’s offense. The mainstream media will focus on Jay Cutler being the most critical piece of the Bears puzzle, but it’s without a doubt No. 22. Wearing beaming white shoes that echoed Sweetness’ Kangaroos, he unplugged the Chargers Thursday showcasing trademark burst, vision and cut-back ability. His highlight: Exploding left side for 58 yards off a beautiful block thrown by future porn star Jermon Bushrod. Most importantly for fantasy purposes, he finished runs inside the five, punching in a touchdown. If that trend continues, Forte could be a steal in the early second round of most drafts (13.2 ADP, RB12). Keep in mind last year he logged just 13 carries inside the 10, less than one-third what category leader Arian Foster tallied. Couple that with Trestman’s designs to utilize him in the slot, out-wide and in-motion as a receiver, which should push his receptions total into the 65-75 range, and he could be a Bear with quite the bite, particularly in PPR formats.

Ryan Mathews, SD, RB – On the other end of the pigskin in Chicago, Ryan Mathews looked fantastic. Can I quit him? Against a ferocious Bears first-team defense the top-seven rusher from 2011 made a cameo. He charged downhill quickly, churned his legs and shed tacklers totaling nine carries for 45 yards (5.0 YPC). In an otherwise disastrous performance for his offensive starters, Mike McCoy showered his running back with praise post-game stating Mathews was "outstanding" and overall "efficient." The Chargers' offensive line, one of the league's worst a season ago, was manhandled in pass-blocking, but did execute well establishing running lanes. If Mathews continues to see open spaces, he's sure to cash in on the post-post-post hype. The talent has always been there, it all boils down to health and opportunity. Danny Woodhead, who's been limited by an undisclosed injury, will see ample action on passing downs, but given Mathews' incredibly affordable 55.3 ADP (RB27), he's absolutely worth the minimal investment. Get pass the shattered collarbones and ineptitude, the once fawned over rusher has the look of a back on the brink of cashing in. And, yes, I proudly paid $28 for his services in a 12-team PPR auction Thursday night. Admittedly, my outward disdain toward him disguises my disgusting love. Eat your heart out, Sigmund Freud.

Jordan Cameron, Cle, TE – As stated on ‘Fantasy Football Live,’ please overpay for Rob Gronkowski, I’ll confidently take Cameron some 80 picks later (120.3 ADP, TE12). The Brown's bark is getting louder with each passing week. His two-TD performance against the always generous Hello Kitties of Detroit is ironclad proof. At 6-foot-4, 265-pounds, the ex-BYU hoopster sticks out like a sore thumb to Weeden, particularly inside the red-zone. His blend of size, body control and ladder-climbing abilities would be attractive to any passer. In man-on-man situations, he's similar to another Jordan whose memory Cleveland fans and Craig Ehlo simply can't drink away. Some still consider him raw, but remember, tight ends under Norv Turner's direction have thrived historically. Jay Novacek was studly in Dallas and Antonio Gates averaged 9.4 fantasy points per game in standard leagues under Norval's guidance. Buy a ticket on the hype train.

Atlanta Offensive Line – After a vomit-inducing preseason opener, it was obvious Mike Smith wanted to make Steven Jackson an integral part of the Falcons’ first-team game-plan against Baltimore. Looking old, sluggish and cooked a week ago, the elder rusher got downhill and chewed up impressive chunks of yards via ground and air. Yes, he’s clearly lost some lateral agility, meaning stretch plays will be very unkind, but he can still gain tough yards and will be heavily involved in underneath pass game. For the veteran to finish inside the RB top-12, the Whopper crushers up front must maintain consistency. Overall, the interior offensive line improved greatly in gap execution against Baltimore, shoving around the Ravens defensive front on basic up-the-gut draws. If the seventh-worst run-blocking unit from a season ago continues to grow and mature, there should be little concern about Jackson's value. He will score a minimum of 12 touchdowns, period.

E.J. Manuel, Buf, QB – Against the Vikes, Kevin Kolb made Christian Ponder, adventurous in his own right, look like Fran Tarkenton. For much of the first quarter, he couldn’t hit the broad side of a barn, unless it was colored purple. Running with the first team he went 1-for-4 for 10 yards and a pick during that frame. Manuel, meanwhile, appeared calm, cool and collected operating with the second-team. Off a stellar first impression, he's 26-for-33 (78.8-percent) for 199 yards and two TDs through two exhibition games. He's also chipped in 29 rushing yards. There's no RGIII in this year's draft class, but if the cards fall right, Manuel could be Russell Wilson-lite. He must make great strides in downfield progressions and reads, however, his versatile skill set and comfort level on short throws are attractive qualities, especially in an uptempo offense featuring arguably the most explosive running back in the game (C.J. Spiller). Though the rookie underwent minor knee surgery Saturday, he could be available for the Bills' opener against New England. Doug Marrone, if you don’t anoint E.J. your starter come Week 5 I will drive to Buffalo, slather you in Frank's hot sauce and drown you in blue cheese. Don't be a CHICKEN!

Giovani Bernard, Cin, RB – With BenJarvus Slow-Ellis watching from the sidelines, the rookie gained the start and flashed the same skill set that convinced Cincy to make him the first running back taken in April's NFL Draft. He displayed excellent vision, open-field jets and tacky hands. In total, he gained 59 yards on just eight touches, including a one-yard TD plunge. Greatly undervalued in drafts (58.9 ADP, RB29), it's not a matter of if, but when the Bengals coaching staff realizes it must give the youngster at least 60-percent of the workload. Jay Gruden hinted early in camp the duo was expected to begin the regular season locked in a 50-50 timeshare. However, if Bernard outshines the veteran in next week's dress rehearsal at Dallas, Marvin Lewis and cohorts will be hard-pressed to keep him off the field half the time. Regardless what his workload is to start the season, it appears Cincy is prepping him for goal-line work, an area BJGE struggled mightily last year. So far, Gio is two-for two in goal-line opportunities. That role is the mechanism needed to release Bernard's inner top-20 RB beast. Too well-rounded. Too good. Too cheap. Bernard is the prettiest rusher typically available in the middle rounds.

View photo
.
